README.md, before:

# Hi there 👋 I'm Matt.

I'm Matthieu Benedict, a first year student in NSCC's game programming progam. I've dabbled in software engineering, IT, and management best practices, but my true love is game programming. I know a few different programming languages and am always hungry for more experience in the industry!

## 💼 I’m currently working on...
I'm currently working on a prototype for a MetroidVania game (working title: Vain) for my game development class. The core elements of this game are of course 2D action combat and platforming. An elevator pitch for this game may be something like this: "Betrayed and cast down from divinity by her children, the goddess must now make her way back up the divine tower to take back her powers and enact her revenge".

Right now I'm working on a combat re-work for the game to provide some more fluid and responsive combat than my first prototype build of the project.

## 📂 Things I've done...
I've done a few things in the field of programming. here are some highlights.

### 🎮 Game Projects:
Here are some of the games I've made.
#### Break Your Maker:
This is a game I made with some friends as part of a university course I was taking (found [here](https://twitchton.itch.io/break-your-maker) on itch.io). It was a small top down shooter game used to explore applying proceedural generation to a game. You play as a super soldier trying to escape the lab that made you. Make your way through the randomly generated level to find the key card and fight the boss to earn your freedom!
![Break Your Maker Key](https://github.com/gdmbenedict/gdmbenedict/assets/97464794/bca19e70-0b04-43e1-ae27-9ec7ca3df58d)

### 🕹️ Game Jams:
Here are some Game Jams I've participated in.
#### GMTK GameJam-2023: WorldWide Casino:
In the GMTK GameJam-2023 I helped make a game called "World Wide Casino" (found [here](https://arizoba.itch.io/worldwide-casino) on itch.io). For the prompt "Rolls Reversed" we made a game where you play as the boss in an old "Time Crisis" style shooting game. You must avoid the player's shots and make your way back to your casino to retrieve your gun and turn the tables against the player.

![WorldWideCasino](https://github.com/gdmbenedict/gdmbenedict/assets/97464794/70073a7b-f6cb-4157-9b94-06cbbece7293)

### 📋 Other:
I've also gained experience in programming non-game related applications. Currently, I help manage a couple websites for a small company called "Qualiti7". I help manage their [main website](https://qualiti7.com/) as well as their [conferene website](https://iq7conference.com/?lang=en). Feel free to check them out.

## 🏫 Education...
- **NSCC** - Game Programming Diplmoa (2023 - Current) *still in education*
- **UNB** - Bachelor's in Science: Software Engineering (2020 - 2023) *incomplete*.  

## 💪 Some of my skills...

<div>
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/c/c-original.svg" title="C" alt="C" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/csharp/csharp-original.svg" title="CSharp" alt="C#" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/java/java-original-wordmark.svg" title="Java" alt="Java" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" title="JavaScript" alt="JavaScript" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original-wordmark.svg" title="NodeJS" alt="NodeJS" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/github/github-original-wordmark.svg" title="Github" alt="Github" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/unity/unity-original.svg" title="Unity" alt="Unity" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
</div>

## ✌️ About me...

### Fun facts:
- I am bilingual in French and English. 🇨🇦
- I liked eating so much as a kid that I figured I should learn to cook and bake well. 🍳
- I build plastic figurines of humanoid robots. 🤖
- I like to paint to help me relax. 🖌️
- I like playing pretend with others around a table for long periods of time (D&D). 🐉
- When I have time for it I try to practice the guitar. 🎸

### Media that has influenced me:
#### Games 🖥️
1. Paper Mario TTYD
2. Pyre
3. Nier: Replicant
#### TV 📺
1. Bojack Horseman
2. Breaking Bad
3. Gundam: IBO
#### Movies 🎥
1. Blade Runner 2049
2. UP
3. Everything Everywhere All at Once
#### Books 📖
1. Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep
2. Dune
3. Chainsaw Man

## 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on ...
Pretty much anything to do with gamedev. If you want my help or to work together send me a message. 👍

## 📫 How to reach me...
[gdmbenedict@outlook.com](mailto:gdmbenedict@outlook.com) <br>
[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthieu-benedict-646a761a9/) <br>
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/gdmbenedict) <br>
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/gdmbenedict/) <br>


<!--
**gdmbenedict/gdmbenedict** is a ✨ _special_ ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.

Here are some ideas to get you started:

- 🔭 I’m currently working on ...
- 🌱 I’m currently learning ...
- 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on ...
- 🤔 I’m looking for help with ...
- 💬 Ask me about ...
- 📫 How to reach me: ...
- 😄 Pronouns: ...
- ⚡ Fun fact: ...
-->

Commit message:

Added Vane Project Playlist
Added for the Vane prototype as well as including the number of credits I finished for engineering.

README.md, after:

# Hi there 👋 I'm Matt.

I'm Matthieu Benedict, a first year student in NSCC's game programming progam. I've dabbled in software engineering, IT, and management best practices, but my true love is game programming. I know a few different programming languages and am always hungry for more experience in the industry!

## 💼 I’m currently working on...
I'm currently working on a prototype for a MetroidVania game (working title: Vain) for my game development class. The core elements of this game are of course 2D action combat and platforming. An elevator pitch for this game may be something like this: "Betrayed and cast down from divinity by her children, the goddess must now make her way back up the divine tower to take back her powers and enact her revenge".

Right now I'm working on a combat re-work for the game to provide some more fluid and responsive combat than my first prototype build of the project.

If you want to see updates on the project you can do so by view [this playlist](www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdYTklGnodY&list=PLYCHzlj4rAu38qnKfRdh80x80c-6fof64&index=1&t=0s).

## 📂 Things I've done...
I've done a few things in the field of programming. here are some highlights.

### 🎮 Game Projects:
Here are some of the games I've made.
#### Break Your Maker:
This is a game I made with some friends as part of a university course I was taking (found [here](https://twitchton.itch.io/break-your-maker) on itch.io). It was a small top down shooter game used to explore applying proceedural generation to a game. You play as a super soldier trying to escape the lab that made you. Make your way through the randomly generated level to find the key card and fight the boss to earn your freedom!
![Break Your Maker Key](https://github.com/gdmbenedict/gdmbenedict/assets/97464794/bca19e70-0b04-43e1-ae27-9ec7ca3df58d)

### 🕹️ Game Jams:
Here are some Game Jams I've participated in.
#### GMTK GameJam-2023: WorldWide Casino:
In the GMTK GameJam-2023 I helped make a game called "World Wide Casino" (found [here](https://arizoba.itch.io/worldwide-casino) on itch.io). For the prompt "Rolls Reversed" we made a game where you play as the boss in an old "Time Crisis" style shooting game. You must avoid the player's shots and make your way back to your casino to retrieve your gun and turn the tables against the player.

![WorldWideCasino](https://github.com/gdmbenedict/gdmbenedict/assets/97464794/70073a7b-f6cb-4157-9b94-06cbbece7293)

### 📋 Other:
I've also gained experience in programming non-game related applications. Currently, I help manage a couple websites for a small company called "Qualiti7". I help manage their [main website](https://qualiti7.com/) as well as their [conferene website](https://iq7conference.com/?lang=en). Feel free to check them out.

## 🏫 Education...
- **NSCC** - Game Programming Diplmoa (2023 - Current) *still in education*
- **UNB** - Bachelor's in Science: Software Engineering (2020 - 2023) *85 Credits comppleted*.  

## 💪 Some of my skills...

<div>
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/c/c-original.svg" title="C" alt="C" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/csharp/csharp-original.svg" title="CSharp" alt="C#" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/java/java-original-wordmark.svg" title="Java" alt="Java" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" title="JavaScript" alt="JavaScript" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original-wordmark.svg" title="NodeJS" alt="NodeJS" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/github/github-original-wordmark.svg" title="Github" alt="Github" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
  <img src="https://github.com/devicons/devicon/blob/master/icons/unity/unity-original.svg" title="Unity" alt="Unity" width="100" height="100"/>&nbsp;
</div>

## ✌️ About me...

### Fun facts:
- I am bilingual in French and English. 🇨🇦
- I liked eating so much as a kid that I figured I should learn to cook and bake well. 🍳
- I build plastic figurines of humanoid robots. 🤖
- I like to paint to help me relax. 🖌️
- I like playing pretend with others around a table for long periods of time (D&D). 🐉
- When I have time for it I try to practice the guitar. 🎸

### Media that has influenced me:
#### Games 🖥️
1. Paper Mario TTYD
2. Pyre
3. Nier: Replicant
#### TV 📺
1. Bojack Horseman
2. Breaking Bad
3. Gundam: IBO
#### Movies 🎥
1. Blade Runner 2049
2. UP
3. Everything Everywhere All at Once
#### Books 📖
1. Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep
2. Dune
3. Chainsaw Man

## 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on ...
Pretty much anything to do with gamedev. If you want my help or to work together send me a message. 👍

## 📫 How to reach me...
[gdmbenedict@outlook.com](mailto:gdmbenedict@outlook.com) <br>
[Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthieu-benedict-646a761a9/) <br>
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/gdmbenedict) <br>
[Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/gdmbenedict/) <br>


<!--
**gdmbenedict/gdmbenedict** is a ✨ _special_ ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.

Here are some ideas to get you started:

- 🔭 I’m currently working on ...
- 🌱 I’m currently learning ...
- 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on ...
- 🤔 I’m looking for help with ...
- 💬 Ask me about ...
- 📫 How to reach me: ...
- 😄 Pronouns: ...
- ⚡ Fun fact: ...
-->
